README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Thermostat Valve Controller (WIP)

Ever had the problem that your thermostat did not heat the way you wanted it to?<br>
It either did not open the valve enough or too much or had a high delay?<br>
A PID controller or other tools like `Better Thermostat` also didn't work?<br>
Having a thermostat like the `Eurotronic Comet` that allows you to manually control its valve?<br>
Then this integration is for you!<br>
Based on a temperature difference between current and target, you can define your own valve positions easily.<br>
It's like the `generic thermostat` but for valves, not on/off heaters, and has many additional [features](#features-list-incomplete).


## Installation
### HACS
1. Open the custom repository dialog in HACS ([Instructions](https://www.hacs.xyz/docs/faq/custom_repositories/))
2. Enter this repository URL into the `Repository` field and select `Integration` as type.<br>`https://github.com/Xitee1/ha-thermostat-valve-controller`
3. Search for `Thermostat Valve Controller` in HACS and install the integration
4. Restart Home Assistant
5. Navigate to [Helpers in HA or click this link](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/helpers/)
6. Create a new helper and select `Thermostat Valve Controller`

## Project start

Based on: https://github.com/Xitee1/home-assistant-custom-components-devcontainers-template

Based on my AppDaemon script: https://github.com/Xitee1/AD-ThermostatController

Because I now have more thermostats and the appdaemon version requires you to misuse the generic_thermostat integration which just doesn't work good when used like this and all the manual work that is needed, I'm creating an integration for this.

Goal for this is:

- Configuring everything trough the GUI (temp sensor, valve, min/max, heating steps)
- Also being able to configure heating presets
- The integration creates a new climate entity (no need to use generic_thermostat and helpers) and links it to the existing device (better visibility and room linking? - need to find that out)

### Todo

- Need to check if device mapping does work (so that the thermostat entity of this integration gets linked to the existing valve device (if the valve integration provides a device))
- Trigger valve position update after min cycle duration (if was skipped before beacuse of the delay)
- When testing using input_numbers, the current temp will not load until it updates. Need more investigation for this in real world usage. According to the code it should update if it is available and on any state changes that are valid (not unavailable, ...) but that does not seem to happen in my testings

### Features (list incomplete)

- Easy setup in GUI, no need to use YAML
- Allows manually defining valve positions based on temperature difference
- Configurable presets
- Emergency valve position: In case the temperature sensor fails, the valve will be set automatically to a specified position that keeps your room at an acceptable temperature
- Minimum cycle duration: Set a minimum duration between valve position updates

### Ideas

- Emergency valve position: Not only trigger this position if the values are unavailable but also if they haven't changed for a while (`calculate_valve_position()`)

Commit message:

Add my-link for hacs (once it got added to hacs repo)

README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Thermostat Valve Controller (WIP)

Ever had the problem that your thermostat did not heat the way you wanted it to?<br>
It either did not open the valve enough or too much or had a high delay?<br>
A PID controller or other tools like `Better Thermostat` also didn't work?<br>
Having a thermostat like the `Eurotronic Comet` that allows you to manually control its valve?<br>
Then this integration is for you!<br>
Based on a temperature difference between current and target, you can define your own valve positions easily.<br>
It's like the `generic thermostat` but for valves, not on/off heaters, and has many additional [features](#features-list-incomplete).


## Installation
### HACS
1. Open the custom repository dialog in HACS ([Instructions](https://www.hacs.xyz/docs/faq/custom_repositories/))
2. Enter this repository URL into the `Repository` field and select `Integration` as type.<br>`https://github.com/Xitee1/ha-thermostat-valve-controller`
3. Search for `Thermostat Valve Controller` in HACS and install the integration
4. Restart Home Assistant
5. Navigate to [Helpers in HA or click this link](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/helpers/)
6. Create a new helper and select `Thermostat Valve Controller`

*When the integration eventually gets added to HACS repo*:

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and open a repository inside the Home Assistant Community Store.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/hacs_repository.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/hacs_repository/?owner=Xitee1&repository=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FXitee1%2Fha-thermostat-valve-controller&category=integration)

## Project start

Based on: https://github.com/Xitee1/home-assistant-custom-components-devcontainers-template

Based on my AppDaemon script: https://github.com/Xitee1/AD-ThermostatController

Because I now have more thermostats and the appdaemon version requires you to misuse the generic_thermostat integration which just doesn't work good when used like this and all the manual work that is needed, I'm creating an integration for this.

Goal for this is:

- Configuring everything trough the GUI (temp sensor, valve, min/max, heating steps)
- Also being able to configure heating presets
- The integration creates a new climate entity (no need to use generic_thermostat and helpers) and links it to the existing device (better visibility and room linking? - need to find that out)

### Todo

- Need to check if device mapping does work (so that the thermostat entity of this integration gets linked to the existing valve device (if the valve integration provides a device))
- Trigger valve position update after min cycle duration (if was skipped before beacuse of the delay)
- When testing using input_numbers, the current temp will not load until it updates. Need more investigation for this in real world usage. According to the code it should update if it is available and on any state changes that are valid (not unavailable, ...) but that does not seem to happen in my testings

### Features (list incomplete)

- Easy setup in GUI, no need to use YAML
- Allows manually defining valve positions based on temperature difference
- Configurable presets
- Emergency valve position: In case the temperature sensor fails, the valve will be set automatically to a specified position that keeps your room at an acceptable temperature
- Minimum cycle duration: Set a minimum duration between valve position updates

### Ideas

- Emergency valve position: Not only trigger this position if the values are unavailable but also if they haven't changed for a while (`calculate_valve_position()`)
